# Living Thoughts: Audio gear and "audiophilia"

## DACs (digital-analog-converters)

DACs are a nearly-100% solved problem. If you feel you need one at all (read:
you can't trust the line out of your computer to be clean, you aren't going
to use an all-in-one like a dongle of some sort, or you need various features
available only through standalone implementations), get something that measures
decently with good build quality and the features you require (be that DSP/EQ,
Bluetooth, eccentric inputs, etc.) and be done with it. Do a quick check before
purchase to make sure it doesn't measure absolutely horribly: almost nothing
on the market at this point is going to be objectively horrible, but gear from
before about 2018 (when the industry got somewhat forced to pay attention to
objective, scientific measurements) varies wildly.

## Amplifiers

Headphone amps are "somewhat solved". It's possible to objectively measure
whether an amp is going to color the sound, or be transparent (peruse Audio
Science Review, [/r/headphones](//reddit.com/r/headphones), or sometimes Super
Best Audio Friends for these measurements).

For most purposes, coloration of sound is generally bad: tube amps, where
coloration is intentional, may be an exception, though I generally hold that any
desired coloration added by tubes is done better, cheaper, and with less energy
demand and component wear via DSP at the DAC or source stage.

An amp either can provide enough power to evenly amplify the entire frequency
spectrum for the given drivers, or it can't: exclamations like "this amp lifted
the veil!" from an audiophile are to be assumed to be bullshit until proven
that (1) the listener has [ABX tested](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ABX_test),
preferably blindly with the help of a friend, the two amps in the same listening
environment, (2) such ABX testing was done with matched volumes within 0.1dB,
and (3) both amps meet the power demand specifications for the headphones used
for testing. Many "audiophiles" are allergic to ABX testing (and one famous
audiophile forum, Head-Fi, outright bans discussion of ABX testing), so this may
be a tricky set of parameters to meet.

Get something that is reasonably transparent, has inputs compatible with your
DAC's outputs (not applicable for all-in-one units), has good ergonomics (eg.
the volume knob feels good in your hand), has little or no channel imbalance at
reasonable listening volumes (digital/relay volume control is great for this,
but hard to find in desktop amps), and has a reputation for reliability. It's
possible to DIY an amp with all of these traits if you're so inclined.

**_Bonus thoughts_**: "balanced" is mostly marketing bullshit for the
overwhelming majority of common headphones. When tons of power is necessary
(which is already rare), it's entirely possible to push a boatload of power
through a single-ended 1/4" jack, see for example [JDS Labs Element III Mk2
"Boosted"](https://jdslabs.com/product/element-iii/). That said, for demanding
cans, balanced (over XLR or 4.4mm Pentaconn) connections can be useful, assuming
the output signal is truly balanced (each channel gets its own amp, and there
is no shared ground), to make up for otherwise-underpowered amp implementations.
For example, running planar magnetic over-ear/full-size headphones off
of a dongle DAC is going to be extremely tricky single-ended, but over a
truly-balanced 4.4mm Pentaconn connection, cans like Hifiman Arya and Dan Clark
Aeon stand a better fighting chance of being powered cleanly.

## Cables

Cables are mostly for aesthetics and ergonomics. Get something that looks and
feels nice and move on with life. You may, or may not, hear small differences in
sound between cables of different materials or gauges. You probably won't, and
if you do, it probably won't be earth shattering. I've heard exactly one cable,
ever, anywhere, that had any noticeable impact on sound quality, and it happened
to be the only non-copper cable in the room at the time.

(Stock cables that come with headphones are often garbage: again, not for sound
quality, but for feel, or length, or repairability).

## Considerations beyond the sound

Comfort, build quality, quality control, reliability, and repairability are
all traits to consider before ever getting into how a headphone sounds. Some of
the commonly-considered "best sounding headphones" are frequently plagued with
faulty (or DOA) drivers, snapping headbands, channel imbalance, fidgety-at-best
ports and plugs (or worse: captive cables), or, most egregiously for something
that has to be worn on the head for, presumably, up to hours at a time, are
grossly uncomfortable.

**Brands that do well by these metrics** include Sennheiser, Meze,
Audio-Technica, Sony, and ZMF. There are Sennheiser HD600s from the 90s still
kicking to this day, and HD565s from even earlier. They're also notoriously
lightweight and generally comfortable for extended listening. ZMF headphones
generally come with a lifetime driver warranty. Sony headphones get tossed
around countless recording studios and DJ sets and still last decades. My own
set of Audio-Technica M50Xes I bought in 2015, now mostly a travel and music
production headphone for me, have survived countless subway and plane commutes
over the past nearly-decade, and even a few months being buried under a fire
extinguisher in the back of my car (I'm not kidding).

**Brands that do noteworthily badly by these metrics** to varying degrees
include Hifiman, Focal, and Audeze. Hifiman's quality control woes are so
extensively well-documented it would be exhausting to recount it all here, but
all the way up to their $6000 MSRP flagship model, driver imbalances, assembly
malfunctions, or failures within two years of varying sorts, are all rampant.
Focal headphones are notorious for headbands snapping, and for replacement
parts being either impossible to source, or nightmarishly expensive (pads are
especially noteworthy here, at $200/pair at time of writing for Focal Clear
pads). Audeze cans are frequently plagued by drivers that are either dead on
arrival, or dead within a few months or a year of use - I myself received some
"certified B-stock" Euclid IEMs which were DOA. Further, Audeze's headphones
are notoriously heavy: try before you buy, unless you frequent the gym for
neck-specific exercises (or grew up playing saxophones, like I did...).

**_Bonus thoughts_**: In general, while planar magnetic drivers have some truly
impressive technical merits and sound qualities (I've owned some headphones with
these drivers, even!), they seem to score quite badly in reliability. While I
trust a Sennheiser or ZMF dynamic driver to last years-to-decades, I have rather
little trust in a planar magnetic to last more than about 5-10 years unless
coddled. Consider your lifestyle and listening environments carefully before
purchasing headphones with such a driver, which includes most, though not all,
headphones by Hifiman or Dan Clark Audio, some by Meze, and as far as I'm aware,
all headphones by Audeze or Rosson at time of writing.

## About price, or about the industry in general

I almost considered putting this block at the top of the page, but I think it
serves better as a closing remark.

At the end of the day, keep in mind that "audiophilia" is an industry fueled by
consumerism. I once heard it referred to as "shopping addiction for those whose
finds of choice happen to produce sound", which honestly doesn't seem far off.
If enough folks are willing to buy $2000+ headphones or amplifiers on every
yearly or two-yearly release cycle, the market will produce such gear on such a
cycle at such prices, and laugh their way to the bank about it. If enough folks
are willing to think they don't have the absolute greatest possible experience,
companies will happily continue to churn out gear, at ever-more-comical prices,
to appease those folks ("chasing the dragon", as it were).

Beware anyone who uses price as their primary basis of comparison between gear,
or as grounds for not considering various gear comparable. "Well **of course**
this $250 amplifier can't be expected to compete with this $2500 amplifier" is
a refrain frequently found on audio forums, especially from folks who *have that
expensive gear*. Sure, there can be technical improvements in the more expensive
gear, but there can also be significant sunken cost self-validation in those
words.

Further beware companies who seemingly never have a shortage of new models to
sell you. Contrast, for example, the tactics of companies such as Sennheiser,
who releases a new HD-series headphone every several years, often with drastic
differences, against those of companies like ZMF, who release new models, albeit
generally significantly differentiated, yearly or more, and yet again against
those of companies like Hifiman, who have so many product lines and revisions
(some silent) within those lines that there's chaotic unofficial version numbers
within the used market ("4-screw version", "6-screw version", "v2/v3/2020
Edition/etc.").

(more on this later... I still need to dig into the **COMICAL ABSURDITY** that
is the delineation between "low-fi", "mid-fi", "hi-fi", and "summit-fi" in the
audiophile scene, and the arbitrary, consumerism-driven delineations between
those brackets defined almost solely by price, feeding a "chase the dragon"
habit in the scene...)
