# Another Year, Huh?

> Or: My anti-resolution resolutions for another lap around the flaming gasball
> centering our solar system.
>
> When: _January 1, 2024_
>
> Where: _Northern Kitsap Peninsula, Washington, USA_

Ah, I see humanity has somehow managed to not wipe ourselves out quite yet and
we've earned our "survived 2023" merit badges, huh? Time for yet another lap
around the sun - may we continue to not extinct ourselves on this lap!

I'm not a particularly sentimental person when it comes to holidays: there's
years where the only reason I remember my birthday or, say, Christmas happen at
all are because other folks won't let me forget. It's thus probably not
terribly surprising to learn that I'm not one for New Year's Resolutions: if I
were, I'd be setting myself up for disappointment, because the twice I ever
tried making proper New Year's Resolutions ("I will do `X` this year"), I
didn't quite reach `X`, and thus "failed" by conventional metrics. In both
cases, however, I did reach `X-N`, some waypoint along the route to `X`, and
learned valuable things. This has led me to generally think of "New Year's
Resolutions" as more of "New Year's Challenges" - as I noted in [_"On
Starting"_](/articles/2023-001-on-starting.html), I tend to do well with
jumping headfirst into challenging things _for the sake of the challenge_, and
seeing where I end up. There's no such thing as failure, only progress and
learning. And so, such challenges are the topic of today's blog post.

I spent some time at the tail end of 2023 thinking through what I'd like to
challenge myself to in 2024. There's *tons* of options - would I like to sail
to some wild destination? Learn a particular woodworking technique? Have a
certain amount of money in my bank accounts? "Finish" some side code project of
mine? Ultimately, the answers to all of these are: "yes? no? kinda? all of the
above?...", which doesn't lend itself to actually sticking to a goal and
continuing to challenge myself. One day while tidying up the kitchen (oh hai,
I'm back on land these days - I haven't really blogged about this yet or
updated [`/now`](/now.html), but it's come up [on
Mastodon](https://merveilles.town/@klardotsh)), the obvious answers were
staring me right in the face: _paper, plastic, and accountability to both_.

## Paper

For a guy who hasn't sat down and read a book to completion since the winter of
2018-19 (when I somehow managed to binge read [_The World as It
Is_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_World_as_It_Is_(book)) on recommendation
of a rather politically-minded friend), I own an astounding number of books on
a further astounding number of topics. From a pile of about 12 cookbooks ([like
this gem I scored at a punk shop in New
Jersey](https://microcosmpublishing.com/catalog/books/5154/)) to several books
about the tech industry and [the ills it inflicts on the
world](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Age_of_Surveillance_Capitalism), to
books on [learning how to embrace
boredom](https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/600671/how-to-do-nothing-by-jenny-odell/),
I've got an absurdly long _To Be Read_ pile that never really shrinks. And
that's a damn shame, because many of the books in that pile are *excellent*.

Thus, my challenge to myself for 2024 is this (and I've scoped it to be
attainable given my comically busy life and questionable attention span while
ramping up on a "new" thing): cook at least one recipe from any of my cookbooks
each month, and make a blog/digital garden (NOT Mastodon!) snippet about the
experience. Read at least one of the nonfiction books by July 1, and then
another by next January 1, and write a blog/digital garden (NOT Mastodon!)
snippet about each.

That's it. The timelines are intentionally forgiving, the bars are
intentionally low. I'm not saying I "will learn how to cook in X style", I'm
not saying I "will clear out my TBR", I'm asking myself to try a new habit, and
share my thoughts with the world in a healthier manner than typical. That's it.
I can miss the mark, I can overshoot it, whatever, but I have to _try_.

## Plastic

Something I complain about at least once a quarter on the thought-spewing site
is how much comically absurd amounts of packaging this world uses, and
particularly, single-use plastics. But what good is just complaining to the
void if I don't make some steps to fix it? My challenge to myself for this year
is somewhat two-fold:

- Firstly, I've identified what is almost certainly my biggest source of
  plastic waste in my life: grab-and-go food/drink stuffs from restaurants. The
  coffee cups (especially bad since I prefer iced coffee, which usually comes
  in plastic cups and not paper), the soda cups, the forks and knives (even if
  they're typically the compostable-ish type here in western Washington), etc.
  My challenge is to limit myself to no more than 5 such instances of producing
  such waste per month. Notice that I didn't say 0. Saying "I will cut out X
  from my life, effective immediately" is a great way to walk straight into
  failure: ask anyone who has reduced or quit nicotine, alcohol, etc. how that
  works. Hell, ask the American sexual education system how well
  abstinence-only teaching works (hint: it fucking doesn't). Instead, I have
  room for the realities of life: for example, I volunteer at live events that
  start ultra-early in the morning in sometimes-distant cities where I might
  not have remembered my coffee mug. Whatever. I have a plastics budget for
  those things. The point is to become more thoughtful about these single-use
  entities, rather than just screaming into the void about them while remaining
  part of the problem.

- Second, I challenge myself to simply document all plastic-based packaging
  that comes into my home starting today, January 1 of 2024. That's it. Just
  document it, and optionally publish a redacted-as-necessary-for-privacy copy
  of it publicly (I will probably do this, unsure exactly where yet). I just
  want to have a running document, a Plastic Ledger if you will, to reference,
  and to think about, and to identify key sources of waste, places I could
  adopt better habits, whatever. But mostly, as somewhat of a more practical
  thought experiment than [wearing all your trash you generate in a
  month](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9vCstrZ7ilk).

## Your Turn!

So that's it! That's my anti-resolutions for this year: to be more thoughtful,
and publicly so, about papers and plastics. If this format of anti-resolution
in the name of personal growth sings to you, I invite you to think about your
own self-challenges, to blog about them publicly (get your
[`#100DaysToOffload`](https://100daystooffload.com/) started, pals!), and to
maybe inspire others to become better people, too, at healthier, hopefully more
sustainable, paces than an absolutes-based "resolution".

Happy new year, folks. Be well, be real, be wise, be foolish, but most of all,
be human!
