Hi! I'm Josh (generally known online as klardotsh[^1]), a software
developer[^2], sailor of boats, music enthusiast, competitive robotics
commentator and referee, and dweller and explorer of the Cascadia bioregion.
You may know of me from my work on the [KMK mechanical keyboard
firmware](//github.com/KMKfw/kmk_firmware), [the in-design Gale programming
language](//sr.ht/~klardotsh/gale/), [a tongue-in-cheek software
license](//git.sr.ht/~klardotsh/fork-off-public-license) that went fungal[^3]
on Mastodon, or for the robotics nerds in the house, from my commentary work
with [FIRST Robotics](//firstinspires.org) in the Pacific Northwest and beyond.

[^1]: The username was originallly formed by sounding out this domain name in
    English, but the canonical pronounciation is "klar-dotshhhh". Exactly like
    you're shushing someone right after saying "dot".

[^2]: By dayjob title, I'm a Senior Systems Engineer, which means I wrangle
    cloud infrastructure, Linux systems and tooling, and internal developer
    experience tooling, as a rough summary.

[^3]: "Posts on [Mastodon] don't go viral, they go fungal, because the
    Fediverse is like the mycelium of mushrooms." -
    [Source](queer.party/@DelphineUnseen/109371670513551027)

I'm still building out this digital garden (it's winter, not much grows here
yet, but I'm working on it). In the meantime, over on <a rel="me"
href="https://merveilles.town/@klardotsh">my Mastodon</a>, you'll find short
utterances into the void in the meantime about boats, living on them, tech,
shouting at it, programming languages, designing them, and every so often
coffee, and how much of it is necessary to survive a PNW winter.

My contact information is [linked from the navbar and here](/contact.html).

I'm open to small contract work in the realms of "DevOps" and infrastructure,
backend web development, developer experience and tooling, and general systems
engineering. See [my resume](/resume.html) or [my contact
information](/contact.html) if you're interested!

## After you're done here...

I have assembled a page of [recommended reading and
watching](/further-reading.html) you can continue on to once you've exhausted
the content here!

## About this site

Unless otheriwse noted, all content on this site ([and the code powering
it](//git.sr.ht/~klardotsh/klar.sh)) is [Copyfree](//copyfree.org) and released
under the [Creative Commons Zero 1.0
dedication](//creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/). It's generated from
Markdown files with [ssg6](//www.romanzolotarev.com/ssg.html) and
[lowdown](//kristaps.bsd.lv/lowdown/), and does not collect analytics data from
you. It should work in almost any HTML renderer under the sun, be it a huge
fancy modern GUI browser, w3m in a terminal, or something even more creative
and minimal.
