# The Trash Can: Page Removals

This page serves as a rough listing of pages that you're not crazy if you're
thinking, "huh, that used to exist, where is it?", because they've been
intentionally removed. This list is not guaranteed to be exhaustive.

### "Cloudy Day"

This was a page dedicated to the sailboat I owned for a bit over 3 years, and
lived on for one. I never really did document the projects and adventures on
that boat as much as I thought I might. It turns out trying to do things and
documenting them, as just one person with limited time and energy, is A Lot ™️.
Anyway, for those curious how the saga ended, I eventually moved back up onto
land, and a ways later, sold the boat. It doesn't feel useful to have a
half-baked page of a former project floating around (hah, puns).

I have gotten emails asking about some now-confusingly-loose ends in other
writing on the site that don't make as much sense without the boat page up to
fill in context: over time I hope to replace any such allusions with more
direct stories or parentheticals to make things a bit more cohesive.

### "Now"

I'm going to strongly echo [Jake Bauer's thoughts on this
topic](https://www.paritybit.ca/blog/an-update-about-this-very-webbed-site/),
so if you read both of our sites, sorry for the deja-vu.

Anyway - a `/now` page is a really cool idea - a well-known path on indie sites
to let folks know, at an executive summary level, what you're up to right now!
Splendid, right? For me, the format never really fit my lifestyle or energy
levels, and so I've canned the page for now. Maybe I'll give it another go some
day.

A Now page is predicated on the assumption that one's life is highly varied
over time, and noteworthy (or at least, I feel that my `/now` updates should be
noteworthy, to be worth reading at all). While my life is highly varied _in
general_, with a long list of hobbies and projects and interests, it's rarely
varied _over time_. I have my lanes, and I mostly stick to them. When I take on
new projects, they tend to be large in scale, and slow in completion. I'm also
highly seasonal, with my winter and early spring largely booked out for
volunteering work with FIRST Robotics (modulo a half-dozen and change weekends
I get to truly disconnect in those months), meaning my late spring through
early fall is typically the time when I can actually dedicate real cycles to
getting anything "cool" done.

I'm not sure at time of writing what, if anything, I intend to replace `/now`
with, but it's gone for... now...
